in this episode of Mighty Car Mods it is
time to get the moon buggy working will
it work at all is it blown it's
completely unknown it's a journey that
has never been journeyed before on this
planet or any planet so come with us on
an intergalactic journey into outer
engine sphere
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to another episode of mighty car
mods and it's a very exciting day
because it is time to get this thing
going now this is my new moon buggy
which is based on a early 70s Volkswagen
super bug Super Beetle but it's heavily
modified as you can see to make it look
like it's a lunar vehicle the car was
built and built very well
mind you like it's absolutely off its
chops I was built for an advertising
campaign I bought it because it was just
sat in storage and then since then it's
been sitting in my mom's garage for the
last five years it hasn't been touched
it hasn't been started so I have no idea
what state it's in but as you can see
it's a very unique and strange car and
something that I'm really excited to try
and get going again but when it comes to
these kinds of engines I have little to
no experience at all and as you may know
Maddie's not around for this one he's
working on his mr2 but luckily I know
somebody who knows all about these so
let's go get him it may seem strange but
the key to unlocking the full potential
of this moon buggy is hidden deep inside
this guitar store Andrew hey don't
bother is that like a fish
if I'm going to have any chance at all
the feeding parties mr2 then I need to
speak to the young man at the end of
this corridor
[Music]
Yuri Frick
this is our mate Isaac who works at the
guitar Factory he's a guitar tech for
the best musicians in the business any
services all of my T's andmy guitars at
our recording studio but as well as
being an absolute boss on the g string
he also knows a thing or two about old
Volkswagens so I've decided to ask him
if he can help me with my old beetle
while marty is knee-deep in mr. poo all
right Isaac feast your eyes on that geez
it's crazy isn't it oh dude it's so
crazy look how intricate all the piping
is like in all the design of the cage
like this has been sort of thought out
in some weird crazy dream he's actually
our guitar tech as a lot of you know
Marty and I actually met working in a
recording studio and we did music for
many years before we were doing Mighty
Car Mods
and Isaac is the one that services and
takes all of our guitars that's uh but
turns out he's also a bit of a
Volkswagen freak as well what's your
history with these kinds of cars oh look
I just fell into him as a teenager just
didn't have much cash and my dad was
super into Volkswagens and he could fix
anything I believe it's probably a 1975
Super Beetle there's actually things I
just noticed then looking at it that
it's not it's not an early beetle this
is a later variant yeah and I had one
like this with no roof it was a chop top
and it ran terribly and I was paying it
off over a week and didn't know how to
fix it and then from there I just caught
the bug okay looking at like what I
don't know automatically but the first
thing is I noticed in the room is the
bigger mode that's not a standard
Volkswagen engine this is a modified
engine and having just standard
Volkswagen engine well for this model it
should be like a 1585 CC so it's the
standard one point leader
yeah and that made about 45 to 50
horsepower depends on what country
emissions standard that sort of vibe
yeah you know this looks like it makes a
bit more I don't make any assumptions so
I've looked a bit closer okay this is
your typical modified air-cooled engine
package put in the rest of this which is
wild like I can't even describe this at
the moment right so it's been sitting
for five years okay okay
the fuel lines are all cracked yeah if
you can see like they're actually just
like they're they're hard as I waited
yeah I don't know anything about car B's
okay when I've like rebuilt them for
motorbikes and stuff I don't know if
it's like similar but I imagine that
when they're sitting for five years they
might be a bit gummy of course there's
fuel in it off you're going through it
that means that all of these lines are
gonna be full of old fuel Weber
carburetors what these are they're on
sort of everything's you sort of sports
car related that sort of vintage you
know inspired stuff you know Alfa Romeos
you know Ferraris even you know
Volkswagens there's so many so many
vehicles out there that are still
running with these carburetors okay so
the aftermarket is huge
is that worth much so I spent I bought I
spent 8 grand on the whole of it ok yeah
look to build a modified air-cooled
engine that's you know probably going to
be which probably talking double the
horsepower of what it was intended to do
it wouldn't be uncommon to spend
somewhere around the $10,000 mark at the
moment and that would really only net
you around a hundred horsepower at the
top end of that scale you find that this
platform just looking at it it could be
upwards of 140 perhaps but that's that's
approaching that hundred kilowatt mark
is sort of approaching the top end I've
kind of a naturally aspirated straight
going air-cooled one small step for
Volkswagen
so when you're working on a project like
this a car and an engine that hasn't run
for so many years really the goal today
is to get clean petrol out of the tank
down into the car B's make a bang get
some schmuck make sure there's
compression and actually make it start
so what I did was asked Isaac what's
some of the kind of common stuff that we
might need and a lot of this stuff had
to come from America so there are things
just like fuel lines and things like
that and then of course the battery's
probably dead but luckily century is
this once we've our shows have sent us a
battery these are made in Australia so
we're big supporters of them and that
should give us the power we need to get
it going shall we enter the wormhole
I'm sorry I'm stuck I'll stop I'm sorry
it's going to take an intergalactic
effort to get this moon buggy running
again after sitting for so long but once
we do get it going as long as this is a
properly worked engine it'll most
definitely chop Marty's mr2 that's we
gone just looking at it it's sort of
like the more I'm looking at it you can
tell there's just so many hours of time
like the welds are really good sort of
things are in thought-out well
thought-out places yeah I think you know
it's interesting because in the
Volkswagen world you get the opposite
extremes you get the really backyard
rough throwing together zip-tied you
know not that that's a problem their
mighty car mods basically no not really
not really but that but you sort of get
the opposite about opposite extremes and
this is clearly built really well I mean
that pedal box alone I'm just looking at
that cluster will do things so expensive
to buy these guys weren't mucking around
our first job is to remove and then pull
apart the car B's now while I have
little experience with these Isak
actually builds and sets these up for
people when they're racing their
Volkswagens so luckily this is something
that he is all over yeah I love
carburetors like I've mocked down with
heaps of EFI stuff too but for me like
this is as close as it gets to the
old-school racing thing in me the
grassroots type I've I love that they're
they're really intricate and they're
detailed and I do a lot of that stuff at
guitar work - for me it's like I love
dealing with those small little things
pulling stuff apart and you know it's
just blowing it up on a bench and
putting it all back together and getting
it working better than it was yeah
awesome ok let's pull these copies apart
and to stay with the old-school
aesthetic we're going to limit our use
of power tools and try and use spinners
for everything we can
[Music]
so good news people we've got our first
evidence that this engine may be a go
making bulk power because if we look
down here we can see that it's got
ported heads
we've got more flow through the engine
means this thing's probably going to do
something that's good so next step now
is rebuild some Covey's yeah that's it
which I've never done this details I've
done a GN 250 I've never done anything
like this but yeah it might be fine
let's get it done there may be some
younger viewers wondering what this
old-school device is well for starters a
carburetor is not meant to have this
much sand in it a car be simply mixes
air and fuel together but once you start
pulling one apart it doesn't seem that
simple at all you can really dive down
the wormhole of Venturi's Bernoulli's
principle butterfly valves and power
valves but all you really need to know
is that the first car B was invented
almost 200 years ago and you can still
find them now in lawnmowers and my
Volkswagen so we have liftoff of the
auxiliary venturi that's what it's
called see all the old-school bay
watching this are like yeah of course
all the young people are going what what
what where's the sr20 what where's the
1j where do i plug my laptop but no this
here look at that axillary boosters it
even looks like a spaceship look at it
so cool I've gone to space people
we've got some more evidence that
indicates that this engine may be bigger
than the 1.6 liter that is these little
Jets here which controller idle or
control everything up two and a half
thousand rpm right those particular jet
these are bigger than what you would
normally expect to see so this here
indicates that the engine is bigger as
well because it needs more fuel at that
low end so if we're lucky it might be a
two liter 2.1 liter 2.2 liter we don't
know yet but it's looking like it's
bigger than 1.6 which means bulk power
in coming in our moon buggy which is
awesome the demand on the float Bowl is
directly proportionate to the velocity
through the throttle bodies so the
venturi dictates the fuel flow and fuel
requirements that the engine needs the
jetting is just a metering device for
that fuel going into the engine
well it do a skip
so that's what five-year-old fuel looks
like people look at that like color
black turning into varnish now we can
pull the Venturi's out which should give
us some more information about the
engine size yep they just pull the
venturi that even just one man might a
huge what's what he got this has a
number written on there it should say
it's a 36 oh yeah 36 so this now 100%
confirms that this is a large capacity
engine excellent
we're probably looking maybe two point
one maybe two points to you later so yes
we're probably targeting that upper
range of 140 horsepower 100 kilowatt
time five ok at the wheels
no at the engine yeah but there's not a
great deal of loss through those sort of
transmission so it's still a good amount
of power for a light thing yes that's
what it'll do like it's all about power
right it'll do a skid it's all it has to
do these are really gig okay I mean it
has to smoke an mr2 that's all it has to
do yeah what 220 horsepower maybe twelve
hundred kilos this is what eight hundred
kilos 140 pounds less it's gonna be a
pretty good race man yeah awesome
[Music]
yeah use that one I think perfect
nailed it we've almost reached the end
of the black hole which is the
disassembly of these copies even though
you probably can't get to the end of a
black hole but once they're disassembled
we're gonna give them a good clean in
wd-40 break in parts cleaner
[Music]
while Isaac does what he does best and
get stuck into the car B's I'm gonna
replace the entire fuel system on the
moon buggy
[Music]
so this here is the ryobi stick vac
which is a cordless vacuum usually it's
got that when you kind of doing your
house or whatever but you can get a
little bit of hose like that and get the
tape up on to an end of a nozzle like
that and that lets you get into all
those crazy hard to reach places
[Music]
I'm going to reuse the fuel filter that
was already on the car but
unsurprisingly like the rest of this
vehicle it is full of sand
[Music]
with the fuel filter now thoroughly
cleaned I can put it back on the car
along with the new fuel regulator a fuel
pump and now I can get going on
replacing all of the old hoses
[Music]
[Applause]
if you want to give your car a touch of
Mighty Car Mods
we sell these Mighty Car Mods cable ties
on our online store
[Music]
[Applause]
this is what the copy looks like when it
is fully broken down you can see just
how many parts there are and all of the
adjustment possibilities but that is
something for another time
all right people so the fuel system is
mostly done we've got new fuel lines new
fuel pump I've done the wiring on that
fuel regulator is in that obviously
splits like a TPS to send fuel to each
of the Cubbies now these have been
completely cleaned and laid out by our I
was gonna call you a guitar expert a
Volkswagen expert my friend Isaac Auto
legend he's the Yoda of the Volkswagen
world of the old badge he loves it
anyway so this is going to slow down a
little bit now because we're gonna
rebuild these and I actually want to do
one of them you know so I can learn how
it's done so we're gonna hang out and do
that tonight
then tomorrow we do the battery the
ignition system we do the oil system
make sure the brakes work make sure the
bearings and stuff are okay and then
we'll be ready to start it like it'll be
skids tomorrow right absolutely
absolutely thank you so much we hope
today I'm saying thank you now even
though we're still gonna be here for
many more hours but thank you very much
everybody for watching that is the moon
buggy day one heaps of progress heaps of
Education and we'll see you back next
time where we're going to start it I was
going to say an skidder I don't know for
skid it will start it we might get it
baby we might there we go
anyway we have cobby's to build so we'll
see you next time on another episode of
mighty moon not I'll stop
you